---
title: 3D Printing
---


import ReactPlayer from "react-player"

# 3D Printing

## Background

### Basic knowledge

3D printing, or additive manufacturing, is a process of making three-dimensional solid objects from a digital file. It
involves adding material layer by layer to create an object, which is why it's called 'additive' manufacturing. This is
in contrast to traditional subtractive manufacturing processes, where material is removed from a solid block.

![0.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d14428a41d896e67109e6892e4df4912097c7018d.png)

### New application

3D printing has found applications in numerous fields:

1. **Shelters and Construction**: 3D printing technology is now being utilized in the construction of homes and
   shelters. Companies like New Story and ICON are pioneering the use of 3D printing to create sustainable, affordable
   housing, and even lunar habitats. This approach is particularly significant amidst global housing shortages, offering
   a faster, more cost-effective method for building homes.

   ![1.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d1bc67926844d14442ffdf76c88fc2a24a74e7401.png)

2. **Automotive Industry**: The automotive sector is leveraging 3D printing for both manufacturing entire vehicles and
   producing parts. Examples include the BMW iX5 Hydrogen car, which combines hydrogen fuel cell technology with 3D
   printing, and the restoration of classic cars like Elvis’ BMW 507 using 3D printed parts.

   ![2.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dc80c2ea3b2ff37ccd4b888ce3522c39956474371.png)

3. **Maritime Applications**: In the maritime sector, 3D printing is being used to create boats and ferries. The
   University of Maine’s 3Dirigo, a 3D printed boat, and the 3D printed autonomous ferry for the 2024 Paris Olympics are
   notable examples.

   ![3.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d069b771e8b18e4f6cbb8b260124de049ce27c514.png)

4. **Fashion and Wearables**: High fashion and wearable technology have also embraced 3D printing. Designers are
   creating custom, intricate designs for clothing and accessories, including flexible garments like the Kinematics
   Dress, which uses small interlocking parts for flexibility.

   ![4.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dc5092cb84b8317f8938a534d97c222f50e0acd69.png)

5. **Healthcare Innovations**: The medical field continues to be a significant area for 3D printing applications, with
   advancements in customized prosthetics, implants, and even the bioprinting of tissues and organs.

### New technology about material

The field of 3D printing materials has seen remarkable advancements, particularly in the development of new materials
designed for specific applications, driven by growing demand across various industries.

![5.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d2163834d0e3e8363695108824be59b267467b686.png)

1. **Data-Driven Material Discovery**: At MIT, researchers have developed a data-driven system that accelerates the
   discovery of new 3D printing materials with multiple mechanical properties. This system uses machine learning to
   optimize new materials, combining different characteristics like toughness and compression strength, thereby reducing
   costs and environmental impact. It suggests unique chemical formulations that might not be intuitive to human
   researchers, enhancing innovation in material development.

2. **Resin-Based Technologies and Metals for Electro-Mobility**: Exciting new resin-based technologies are unlocking new
   applications, particularly in the automotive sector, where there's a growing interest in using 3D printing for
   electro-mobility applications. This includes high-volume applications that are increasingly relevant in the
   automotive industry, especially in the context of electric vehicles.

3. **Advances in Biocompatible Materials**: The development of biocompatible materials for 3D printing is transforming
   healthcare. These materials enable the direct 3D printing of medical devices and models, providing an efficient
   alternative to more labor-intensive processes. For example, advances in biological materials could potentially lead
   to the creation of arteries, veins, and even human organs, thereby directly improving human health and well-being.

4. **New Materials for SLS 3D Printing**: For Selective Laser Sintering (SLS) 3D printing, new materials like TPU 90A
   Powder have been introduced. This flexible elastomer combines high tear strength and elongation at break with the
   design freedom and durability of SLS 3D printing, broadening the scope of applications.

5. **Pure Silicone and Technical Ceramic Resins**: Developments in materials like the first accessible pure silicone 3D
   printing material and high-performance technical ceramic material for SLA 3D printers have opened doors to intuitive
   and cost-effective part manufacturing. These materials are suitable for a range of applications, including rapid
   prototyping, low-volume manufacturing, and tooling.

### New technology about machine

Continuous improvements in 3D printing machines have led to increased precision, speed, and versatility. Notable
advancements include:

- **Multi-material Printing:** Machines capable of printing with multiple materials in a single build, expanding
  possibilities for diverse applications.

- **Large-Scale Printing:** Development of printers capable of producing oversized objects, especially relevant in
  construction and manufacturing.

- **Stereolithography (SLA) and Digital Light Processing (DLP):** High-precision resin-based printing technologies
  offering fine details and smooth surface finishes.

### New paper

Ongoing research in 3D printing is documented in various papers, contributing to the continuous growth of knowledge in
the field. Recent papers delve into:

- **Machine Learning in 3D Printing:** Exploring the integration of artificial intelligence to optimize printing
  processes and material usage.

- **Sustainability in 3D Printing:** Assessing the environmental impact and exploring eco-friendly materials for a more
  sustainable approach.

- **Bioprinting Challenges:** Addressing the complexities and ethical considerations in printing biological tissues and
  organs.

- **Advanced Printing Techniques:** Investigating novel printing methods to enhance speed, precision, and the range of
  printable materials.

### Conclusion

As 3D printing continues to evolve, the intersection of new applications, materials, machine capabilities, and research
findings propels the technology into new frontiers, promising exciting possibilities for the future.

## About our project

### Preview

#### Model 1

This is an assembleable gear model.

<div style={{
    display: "flex",
    justifyContent: "center",
    alignItems: "center",
    width: "100%",
  }}>
    <ReactPlayer width="960px" height="480px"  controls url="https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d6786_1702978778.mp4" />
</div>

#### Model 2

This is a model we found in the community.

![](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dWechatIMG6768.jpg)

#### Model 3

This is the semi-circular tray model we use for testing printing at different angles and adding supports.

% TODO: Wait for photo

### Step 1: Prepare BambuStudio

- **Download BambuStudio**: Before starting, we can download the software at the following
  website:[软件 - Bambu Lab 拓竹科技](https://bambulab.com/zh/download)

  ![6.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3de6a143a445bed84e5d41bf4e3e791a6c81304528.png)

- **Install software:** Double-click the downloaded .exe or .dmg file to install BambuStudio.

  ![](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3df2883bc142b650d72407f29b615d5f7011c4f717.png)

- **Select login region:** The first step is to select the region you are located in. A user account registered in North
  America for example, cannot log in if the region is set to China.

  ![bdbb96f8ef15a00f6fd3cb3b11017197bad19f65.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d7e525dc921bc4a764e39302cbc2023bdba77c715.png)

- **Select our printer:** In the slicer operation menu, we can choose any or all of the options available to us. These
  options can be altered at a later stage through the slicer menu should we wish to only choose one at this stage and
  decide to change nozzle size at a later stage. For this homework, we can select *Bambu Lab A1 mini with a 0.4 nozzle*.

  ![8.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3de6b169f665b0d51dfb7633a2b41b9b953cbc38ee.png)

- **Filament Selection:** In the filament preset list, we can select the filaments.

  ![9.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d5c690e4d203e4baed6f22921aa767cbc473cf2ca.png)

- **Open BambuStudio:** To start slicing a model, click on "New Project".

  ![10.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3db6b1e83a889181525bc47370e911c3e16c0cbf94.png)

  ![11.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dfb801ecf0ae96db889417acfe696209a8d10f35c.png)

### Step 2: Prepare models

Preparing a model for 3D printing involves several steps that we can follow to ensure a successful print:

- **Choose or Create a 3D Model**: We start by selecting a 3D model. We can either create one using 3D modeling software
  like Blender, Tinkercad, Fusion 360, or download pre-made models from websites like Thingiverse or MyMiniFactory.

  ![12.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dcebf77d097bc1293057582dfceff42bbebbf3f18.png)

  **Check the Model's Printability**: It's essential to ensure that our model is suitable for 3D printing. This means
  checking for any errors in the model such as non-manifold edges, holes in the mesh, or overly thin walls that might
  not print correctly.

  ![13.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dd3d94019776e2ab54cd98135a3a63b62af99b1e4.png)

- **Adjust the Model's Scale and Orientation**: We need to adjust the size of our model to fit the print bed of our 3D
  printer. Additionally, we should consider the best orientation for printing to minimize the need for support
  structures and to ensure the best possible surface quality and structural integrity.

### Step 3: Use slice software to setting parameter

Using BambuStudio, we'll need to slice our model. This involves setting parameters such as layer height, infill, support
structures, and print speed. After clicking the button, the slicer enters the Preview pane, which displays the
appearance of the slice model after processing the. 3 mf file. The histogram on the right will also display the print
time information for each print parameter.

![截屏2023-12-20 11.49.17.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3de0516ffbd35ad2629cecf9ac8bf9bd88bca2910a.png)

Because our model has overhangs or other complex features, we need to add support structures in the slicing software to
prevent parts of the model from collapsing during printing.

![14.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3de2c1ddf9e476e173ecb95256eea8dfa01f474ffd.png)

![15.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d14ad344a01dca65a11959d3f94cc571b517edf66.png)

Then we click on “slice single disk”, and click the arrow on the left of Print Plate to select "Export Single Dislide
File".

![16.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dbee3fe9bca75a7c81ac380153daf26dd546b5b05.png)

Save the gcode.3mf file. Store the files in the printer’s SD card to print on the printer, manipulate the three parts
exported from the fusion360, convert them into files readable by printers like gcode.3mf, and store them in the SD card
of the printer.

![截屏2023-12-20 11.50.15.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d4c3c42a1ebb2bb1fa0ba8bc419da870cf6648b34.png)

### Step 4: Use 3D printer to manufacture it

The Bambu Lab A1 mini is equipped with full-auto calibration features, including auto bed-leveling, auto Z-offset, and
auto flow dynamics, which ensure high-quality prints with minimal manual adjustments. The printer's all-metal frame and
high-speed precision capabilities contribute to its reliability and quality output.

We take the SD card and insert it into the tiny slot located on the right-hand side of the Printer Display screen. Press
the folder icon on the left-hand menu selection on the screen, and then select “SD Card” option from the top menu. The
file should be visible there.

![67231702978813_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d0d1599b5c771b0ed99a897ca2dff7822e882071e.jpg)

![67211702978811_.pic_hd.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d76c35a1439c37278feea6e74e87e1b9b6f0335de.jpg)

![67201702978809_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dcbd0d2e69d4b858e537a45646cfc7561d2e66ce0.jpg)

![67191702978807_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d6e9f86a75b86b136bc8891a9d6fec8cab8258c5a.jpg)

![67171702978805_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d94c5b27ea77c36627c5539abd3a234948436acc9.jpg)

![67131702978795_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d6dae83e58bd5ba7c313b572a33e186e3a6eb303e.jpg)

![67121702978792_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d6e2a3b8901b8459b77cf53956b9257954eee33cb.jpg)

![67111702978790_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dc83c402fbd95d511bc6f1b5e6a437d4341eec2a5.jpg)

After printing, we need to postprocess the model. This can include sanding to smooth the surface, painting, or applying
other finishes to enhance the appearance and functionality of our print. We use sandpaper to grit models. Then we
assemble the parts and complete the production.

This is an assembleable gear model.

![6121703045525_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d4e42aa94483526c8477d2b0e2b5e78acb0753b77.jpg)

This is a model we found in the online community.

![](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dWechatIMG6747.jpg)

![](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dWechatIMG6768.jpg)

This is the semi-circular tray model we use for testing printing at different angles and adding supports.

![67031702978780_.pic.jpg](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3d71610a178cbb90dc66b3cd9ce7051f561fece9fd.jpg)

### Step 5: Find new reseach or application

We can stay updated with the latest trends and applications in 3D printing by following relevant forums, communities,
and official channels like [Bambu Lab Community Forum](https://forum.bambulab.com/latest).

![截屏2023-12-20 10.34.15.png](https://bosiden-pop.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/pattern/other/other/3dWechatIMG6979.jpg)

### Step 6: Try to read gcode

In our use of BambuStudio, it will generate G-code for our model. This G-code is essentially a set of instructions that
our 3D printer will follow to create the print. It's important for us to familiarize ourselves with the basics of
G-code. Understanding G-code will help us grasp how our printer interprets and executes the print job, and it can be
especially useful if we need to troubleshoot any issues or make specific adjustments to the printing process.
